Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to go over Karris basics.
We're going to learn how to create a machine learning model with the cursed library with tensor flow
back and we'll start with some data on currency banknotes.
Some of these bank notes were forgeries and others were legitimate.
The researchers created a data set from these bank notes by taking 400 by 400 pixel images of the notes
and then extracting various numerical features based off the wavelets of those images something that's
very important to note here is for this particular lecturer the data we're working with is actually
not image data directly.
We're focusing right now and how to use carriers for general machine learning instead of reusing features
that were extracted from images.
Once we learn about convolutional neural that works later on in the section then we can expand on carriers
to feed and image data that is actual pixel images that are rectally into a network.
So right now we're just focused on how to use keras that general syntax and how to perform a machine
learning task such as getting data reading it in splitting it into a training set and a test set fitting
the model to that training data and then predicting a new unseen data such as the test set.
OK let's get started.
All right.
I'm going to begin by importing some pie as an MP and then also from some pie.
I'm going to import this function called Jeon from text.
And what this does is it generates an array from a text file.
The data we have for you has already been organized as what's known as a CSB file or a comma separated
file.
So we will say Gen from text and then from the data folder.
Go ahead and read in bank note data that TSC but just make sure you passen the delimiter parameter with
a string and then a comma inside that string.
That basically indicates that the actual features are separated by commas.
OK so now we have our data.
If we take a look that we have these various columns of features and you'll notice here on the end we
have zeros and ones where that basically indicates whether or not it was an actual authentic note.
So if it's zero that means it was a forgery.
If it is one that means it was an authentic.
So this is known as the label or class.
So we're going to classify or build a machine learning model that can classify these bank notes just
based off of these features right here.
So we're going to feed in these features and then later on we're going to be able to predict the zero
or one class in order to do that or we're going to do is start by separating out the label from the
actual features.
So the labels themselves that is the last column they're going to say give me all the rows of that last
column index for so if you check out the labels now have an array of all the zeros and ones.
So that's important here is it looks like these are sorted.
So we're going to take care of that later on a train test split but I also want to grab the features.
So my features are right here.
So these feature columns so I will say features equal to data.
And I don't regret everything but the fourth column.
So go 0 to 4 so not including four.
I take a look at those features.
It's just the numerical features it no longer has that label.
So I have my labels or my glasses there.
Those terms are interchangeable.
And then I also have my features.
It's time to actually split the data into a training and test set by convention.
We use a capital X for features and a lowercase y for labels.
That's just because that's the mathematical notation used in machine learning papers.
We have a capital X due to the fact that the features is usually a to d matrix and Y is then a singular
array vector but it's up to you.
You can keep features and labels if you want as your variable names but we'll go ahead and keep capital
X and lowercase y for now.
The next step as I mentioned is to split the data into a training and test set.
We're going to do this with the sikat learn library will say from S.K. learn the model selection and
you can tab out a complete that import the train test split function.
And what this does is it's going to split up the features and the labels into a training set and a test
set.
And what's really nice about this train test split is that also those randomized shuffling.
So we don't need to worry about this concern that the labels happen to be in sorted order.
This will automatically shuffle them for us.
So we're going to do the following.
We'll start typing out train to split and then do shift tab here.
And if you scroll all the way to the bottom you get this nice example of how to use it.
And if you keep scrolling down you get this example right here trying to split x y to size in random
state.
Go ahead and copy that and then just replace what's in your cell with that line and then go ahead and
Luray those ellipses is three dots there.
All right.
So let me explain what's going on here.
All we're saying is passen your X features and then passing your y labels choose your test size.
So 30 percent of the data here 33 percent a third of that data is going to go to the test set.
So 33 percent of the features will be an X test 33 percent of the labels will be in white test and then
this random state 42 as I mentioned this data is going to be shuffled before we actually split it into
a training set and a test set.
So to make sure you get the same shuffle every time you can set a random state and 42 is just an arbitrary
value.
You'll see a lot of programs use 42 because of the Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy book.
That's the answer to everything in the universe so if you're ever curious about why 42 is a default
in so many Python things that's the answer.
OK.
Now that we've done that we can go ahead and check out our data so we can check out if I can spell it
X train.
So here we have extreme And let's take a look at the length of X train.
It's nine hundred and nineteen.
If I take a look at the length of X before with the split It was 1972.
Which means if I check the length of X test now it's the remaining 33 percent.
So 60 percent of my data for the features is now an X train.
Thirty three percent of it is now an X test so x train an X test.
Those are the features that else have y train and y tests which took a look at as well.
If I'm curious we have y train and it's just a bunch of ones and zeros and then we also have Y test
again.
Also a bunch of ones and zeros and they correspond based off their index to the rows of X test or X
train now.
Typically when working with neural networks it's a good idea to standardize or scale your data and we
can do that with a convenient function from sikat learn.
We will say from Eski learn pre-processing import min max scaler and all of this is going to do is it's
going to force all the feature data to fall within a certain range and this can help the neural network
actually perform better for this small data set.
It's actually probably not necessary the range doesn't seem to be that high.
And you can actually test for this by searching for the max.
So the max is 17 that's about the same order of magnitude as the minimum.
So the minimum is around 13.
Now if you add a max value a something like a million and a minimum value of something like negative
13 then you have orders of magnitude off in certain features.
So then it would definitely be a good idea to do a min max scale.
In our case it's probably not super necessary but it's always a good idea and it is free.
You know the computers doing the work here so might as well do it.
So we have been Max Giller and the way this works is you create a scalar object.
So you say minimax Galer open and close print sees and now the scalar object.
What we're going to do is we're going to fit it to our training data.
We will say scalar objects that fit in person X train.
So what this does is it basically just finds the minimum value and the maximum value then what it's
going to do is it's going to transform whatever array you pasand such as X tests and x train based off
the min and max that it just calculated during the fit.
So it just lets it know what the minimax is.
The next thing we need to do is actually do a transform.
So will say scalar object thought transform and then pass an X train and this is going to return back
the scaled versions will say scaled X train is equal to transform X train and then we'll do the same
for the test data.
So I'll say scalar object transform X test now a really common question here is why did we only fit
to X train.
Why did I not fit to all my data why they are not fit to X that is because we want to make sure that
this scalar object doesn't get to peek at any test data.
Otherwise it's kind of like cheating because we're not going to transform the X test having only fitted
on X train.
So if you were to on the entire data set that's known as data leakage.
And that's essentially cheating.
So I usually just want to fit to your training data and then transform both the train and the test.
Having only fit to the training data otherwise you're assuming some knowledge of the test data that
in real life you're not going to have OK.
So now we're going to do is check out the max of these data sets so we can say scale x train and check
out the max here and those the max has now been fitted to be one or pretty much close to one.
This is usually just a floating point air.
And if I take a look at my x train the original looks something like this now and if I take a look at
the scale version it's now pretty much all between 0 and 1 are probably negative 1.
Let's check them at home.
Yep.
So it's all between 0 and 1.
OK.
So we're able to successfully scale those.
Both the training set and the test set.
Now it's time to actually build a simple network with cameras.
It is actually pretty straightforward.
We say from Cara's thought models import sequential
layers in poor dense and densely connected layer.
And once you were in both of these you sometimes get a little warning sign that says using tensor flowback
and if you happen to be using tensor or flow next I'm going to say model is equal to sequential.
So this actually creates the model.
And then I add in my layers.
So I'm going to add in a dense layer that's that densely connected layer.
And I'm going to say that it expects for features.
Remember we have four columns in the feature right.
And then I will say the input dimensions is equal to 4 as well.
And the activation we're going to be using is the rectified linear unit.
So right now we have four neurons in the Slayer the input dimension is four and the activation is rectified
leading a unit.
Let's go ahead and add another then Slayer are densely connected Lehre will say dense.
And here is where you can play around the neurons.
So right now this is the layer right in the middle of the neural network.
It's up to you what how many neurons.
One of the side if you go too large you will probably end up getting bad results if you also go to small.
Here it's probably a good idea to go somewhere between 1 x and 2 x the input dimensions.
So it's going to go with two X and say eight.
And we're going to say activation is equal to.
Also rectified linear unit.
We don't need to provide an input then mentioned here because this is the layer that's the input layer.
This is now kind of a hidden layer.
And then finally we're going to have a last layer the output layer and this is going to be dense.
And this is actually just going to be one year on because this is one year on.
It only has one output either 0 or 1 and then the activation here will be sigmoid because remember the
sigmoid function as described will be fit between 0 and 1 OK.
So once you've set up the model as a sequential model and we've added all or layers that we want if
you really wanted to you could add a bunch of hidden layers but that's unnecessary for this problem.
Then we compile the model and for the compilation the model we need to choose a loss in optimizer and
the metrics that we're concerned with during fitting.
So we're going to do here same model compile and we're going to set our loss equal to binary underscore
cross entropy
and then set the optimizer equal to Adam and then set the metrics equal to just a list of a single string
accuracy.
OK.
So go ahead and run that.
That should have compiled the model.
Now it's time to actually fit or train the model so we'll do the following.
We say model fit and then we're going to fit the scaled training data.
So we say scale x train and then we also provided the correct labels to train on.
So we'll give it white train and then you can choose the number of e POCs one e Poch means you've gone
through all the training data one time.
So let's go ahead and do 50 epochs depending on how fast your computers you may want to choose a lower
number.
And then for both I like verbose too it gives you enough information basically verbose in parameters.
Usually it means that it's reporting back it's going to print.
Long as it's training.
So let's go ahead and run this a should begin to see IPAC 1 out of 50.
And eventually it'll start training.
Keep in mind I have a really fast computer so yours may take slightly longer.
So this ran for 50 epochs.
And at the end of the day it looks like it was hovering almost around 99 percent accuracy.
Remember this is the accuracy on the training set.
We still don't know how it's going to do when it tries to predict on data that it hasn't seen before.
This data is our test data.
So remember we have our scaled X test data.
This is essentially brand new data that the model hasn't seen before.
So once we train the model the next question is how do we actually predict on new data.
Well we can predict all the tests because the Tesa is essentially new data.
It was never trained on the test set.
So let's go ahead and show you how you can do that the way you do it is just saying model that predict
predict underscore classes and then Passons scaled X test.
And when you actually read that it's going to produce this array of zeros and ones that it predicts
for the scaled X test.
So that's nice for the predictions but how well did it do.
Do we actually perform well.
Well what we're going to do now is evaluate our model.
So let me comment this out what I will say is the following model and I'm going to call metrics underscore
names and the two metrics are actually the ones appear loss and accuracy.
And we're going to be using those metrics to evaluate the model performance and we'll say from a Skillern
metrics import confusion matrix and classification report and we're going to actually grab the predictions
we showed last time.
So I'm going to copy and paste this and set this equal to my predictions.
So now that I have a list of predictions on the test set we already know the right answer.
The right answer were the why test so I can say confusion matrix passen my why test and my predictions.
And now I have my confusion matrix.
And you can see it's only misidentifying seven big nodes and if you actually want to get things like
precision recall an EF 1 score all you do is say Prince.
The classification report on why test and predictions and if you run that now we can see that we're
performing really well pretty much 90 percent precision recalling EF 1 score across the board.
And if you want to say this model all you need to do is grab your model say save and then save it to
whatever you want.
You can say my super model and give it the extension dot h 5.
And if you want to load the model or you need to do is say from Kurus dot models.
Import load model and then say new model is equal to load model.
And then you in wherever the model will save.
So in this case we'll just say my super model H5 and then now that we have this new model and it's loaded
in it loads and all the weights and you're ready to go.
You can then call pre-date classes again on the scaled X test and then we have our classes.
OK.
So that's all there is to it.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums.
But that is the very basics of running cares and running a machine learning process.
We'll see you at the next lecture.